.. _automatic_s_curve_generation:

****************************
Automatic S-curve Generation
****************************

Generation of an S-curve requires creating a set of scenarios with a range of dose rates/fluxes where the identification metric (PID, C&C, etc) goes from 0% to 100% (or 100% to 0%, in the case of an inverse S-curve). The automatic S-curve tool removes the burden of finding the range of intensities where this transition happens from the user, finding this range automatically using a large amount of low-statistics scenarios and populating the range with several evenly-spaced high-statistics scenarios once found.

The Automated S-curve GUI can be accessed via the "Tools" menu. The GUI has two tabs with several fields each; the user only needs to interact with the main tab (all settings in the "Advanced Options" tab are optional). On the main tab, several fields must be filled:

- An instrument must be selected before anything else. This will gate which materials will populate the source and background options. Note that only instruments with command line replay tools will appear as options for the automated S-curve
- The material selected in the source drop-down menu will have its intensity automatically varied to generate the S-curve.
- Background sources are optional, but can be added if desired. Any number of background sources may be added. The intensity of the background sources are not varied.
- Dwell time is used in the range finding and the final high-statistics scenarios.
- Replications quantifies how many replications will be present in the final, high-statistics scenarios.
- The Invert S-Curve option causes the algorithm to search for a range of scenarios where the isotope identification rate decreases as the source intensity increases.

Various options in the "Advanced Options" have been preset. A mouse-over menu pop-up explains each option in more detail.

The scenarios generated by the automated S-curve tool can be handled like any other, including viewing the results, plotting, changing scenario groups, etc.  
